<p align="center">
  <h2 align="center">🎨 Userstyle Creation</h2>
</p>

<p align="center">
	Guidelines for requesting and creating userstyles.
</p>

&nbsp;

### Requesting Userstyles

To request a website to be themed, please create a
[Port Request](https://github.com/catppuccin/catppuccin/discussions/new?category=port-requests)
discussion on [catppuccin/catppuccin](https://github.com/catppuccin/catppuccin).
While this may seem odd, this ensures to keep all of our requests in one place
and makes it easier for all people to request what they want without needing to
learn what "Stylus" exactly is.

**If you have already created a userstyle, please raise a
[Pull Request](https://github.com/catppuccin/userstyles/compare)!**

&nbsp;

### Creating Userstyles

To create a userstyle, follow the instructions listed below:

1. Fork this repository.
2. Create a new branch under the name `feat/<name-of-website>`, (e.g.
   `feat/nixos-search` instead of NixOS Search).
3. Create a new folder `styles/<name-of-website>`. The name must be
   `lower-kebab-case`.
4. Copy the contents of the [`template`](../template/) folder into
   `styles/<name-of-website>`.
   - **The template uses [LESS](https://lesscss.org/#overview), a
     preprocessor for Stylus. Please do not change this as we will only accept
     userstyles based on the template.**
5. [Write the userstyle](./how-to-write-a-userstyle.md).
6. Edit the [`userstyles.yml`](../scripts/userstyles.yml) file and put in the details
   of your port. **More details given below.**
7. Create your image preview.
   - Take a screenshot of the themed website in each flavor, and then convert all four images [to WebP](./tips-and-tricks.md#how-do-i-convert-preview-images-to-webp) (e.g. `mocha.webp`,
     `macchiato.webp`, `frappe.webp` & `latte.webp`).
   - Use [Catwalk](https://github.com/catppuccin/toolbox#catwalk) to generate a
     composite or grid image of all the images. **This must be saved as
     `styles/<name-of-website>/preview.webp`.**
8. Raise a [pull request](https://github.com/catppuccin/userstyles/compare),
   making sure to read and fill out the template properly. The title of your pull request should follow the format of `feat(<port-name>): init`.

&nbsp;

### `userstyles.yml`

**Please note that the `README`s for each port are auto-generated by scripts
defined in [`scripts/generate/`](../scripts/generate)**, along with many other parts of
this repository. This file, `userstyles.yml`, is responsible for holding the
necessary data to auto-generate everything.

[`userstyles.schema.json`](../scripts/userstyles.schema.json) is the schema
specification for this file. The fields in the following instructions are based
on the schema:

1. Add your name to the list of collaborators.

   ```yaml
   collaborators:
     - &<github-username>
     name: <your name, this is optional>
     url: https://github.com/<github-username>
   ```

2. Locate the `userstyles` section and add your port to the list.

   You should make changes to everything wrapped in `<>` and remove the `<>`
   characters. If you need help with any of the fields, you should refer to
   other ports in the `userstyle.yml` file. If you would like extra guidance,
   you can ask for help in the pull request or join our
   [Discord](https://discord.com/servers/catppuccin-907385605422448742).

   `Required Fields:`

   ```yaml
   <port>:
     name: <name>
     # Up to 3 categories are allowed.
     # The first category is considered the "primary" category and impacts where the userstyle appears on the README.
     categories: [ <category> ]
     color: <color>
     readme:
       app-link: <url>
       current-maintainers: [ *<github-username> ]
   ```

   `All Fields:`

   These extra `usage` & `faq` keys will ensure that you can add important
   information about the port to the README.

   The `icon` key is best explained the schema specification itself.

   The `past-maintainers` key is a list of people who have maintained the port
   in the past. We encourage all maintainers to add/remove themselves from this
   list as they see fit.

   Remember that these 5 fields are **optional**.

   ```yaml
   <port>:
     name: <name>
     categories: [ <category-a>, <category-b> ]
     color: <color>
     icon: <icon>                                    # OPTIONAL
     readme:
       app-link: "<url>"
       usage: |+                                     # OPTIONAL
         > **Note** <br>
         > <your notes>
       faq:                                          # OPTIONAL
         - question: <question>
           answer: <answer>
       current-maintainers: [ *<github-username> ]
       past-maintainers: [ *<github-username> ]      # OPTIONAL
   ```
